docs: add installation guide (#818)
asyncapi/generator: docs/installation-guide.md

> ---

Reviewer: @Florence-Njeri Hey, so a reminder again that we use sentence capitalization in headers for Docs. (I keep having to update your headers girl 😜😜😜😜)

Author: I'm sorry, I promise it won't happen again 😅

title: "Installation Guide"
weight: 10
---

> There are various ways you can use the Generator library to generate whaterver you want in your event driven architecture apps. Find your prefered method below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are various ways you can use the Generator library to generate whatever you want in your event-driven architecture apps. Find your preferred method below:
```

> - [Generator CLI](#generator-cli)

Author: Thank you @derberg

> - [Using the AsyncAPI Generator CLI](#1-using-the-asyncapi-generator-cli)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Generator CLI](#generator-cli)
```

Not sure if this URL works now, but I wanted to make sure we shorten this to be succinct

- [Use the Generator Library In Your Node.js Apps](#2-use-the-generator-library-in-your-nodejs-apps)
  

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: great header, for both TW & SEO!

> Before you install and use the AsyncAPI CLI and the generator library, make sure you meet the prerequisites below then [install the CLI](#installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you install and use the AsyncAPI CLI and the generator library, ensure you meet the prerequisites below, then [install the CLI](#installation).
```

1. Node.js v12.16 and higher
2. Npm v6.13.7 and higher
   
To verify the versions of node and npm you have, run the following command on your terminal:
```
npm -v
```
```
node -v
```

> If you don't have either Node or Npm installed, do so using the [official node.js installer](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have either Node or Npm installed, use the [official node.js installer](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
```

> If you have the right versions installed, proceed to the CLI installation guide below else, upgrade the version of npm or node if lower than the recommended versions specified above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have the correct versions installed, proceed to the CLI installation guide below. Otherwise, upgrading the npm or node version is lower than the recommended versions specified above.
```

> ## Using the AsyncAPI Generator CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generator CLI
```

When writing **headers** in docs, focus on being **succinct**. Avoid unnecessary terms, verbs,  or articles _(i.e. the, of, etc)_. 

Example: `asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator#generator-cli`.

Author: Gotcha! This makes so much sense, when writing I wasn't putting into consideration how the links to the different sections will look like or even SEO! Thank you for enlightening me

> The CLI tool allows you to generate message-based API boilerplate code, documentation or anything else you need as long as you specify it in your [template](template.md). To use the Generator via the CLI, you will need to install the AsyncApi Generator CLI tool in your local development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLI tool allows you to generate message-based API boilerplate code, documentation, or anything else you need as long as you specify it in your [template](template.md). To use the Generator via the CLI, you will need to install the AsyncApi Generator CLI tool in your local development environment.
```

> ### Installation

Reviewer: great header, for both TW & SEO!

> The recommended method to interact with the generator tool is by using its CLI. To use the CLI, install it  using the following `npm` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended method to interact with the generator tool is its CLI. To use the CLI, install it  using the following `npm` command:
```

```
npm install -g @asyncapi/generator
```

To install a specific version of the generator tool, pass the version during installation:
```
npm install -g @asyncapi/generator@{version}
```
> :bulb: **Remember:** 
> Each [community developed template](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate) is dependent on a certain version of the generator for it to work correctly. Before you install the generator CLI, check the templates' `package.json` for the version of the Generator CLI your template is compatible with. To learn more about the generator version and how it correlates to the template you use check the [versioning docs](versioning.md).

> 

Reviewer: Interesting ! I think this is very long and verbose, without telling us much at all. However, I DO think we should include this in this installation section because documenting diff OS installation is a best practice. Here is a standard example from Gastby that shows how this can look like... 

<img width="400" alt="Screen Shot 2022-10-19 at 2 07 36 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/196804641-ed353956-ea1d-414f-a15b-00b58407a12e.png">

## My feedback suggestion
Florence, I'd prob shorten this and improve it by making a tiny section per top two OS minimum:

```
#### MacOS 
You can install in MacOS by using brew: `brew install asyncapi`. 

#### Linux 
You can install in Linux by using `dpkg`, a package manager for debian:
1. 'curl -OL https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases/latest/download/asyncapi.deb`
2. `sudo dpkg -i asyncapi.deb`

#### Other Operating Systems
For further installation instructions for different operating systems, read the [`AsyncAPI CLI` readME file](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ok, and overtime we can always ask volunteers to update doc as first time contribution, of there are more methods available 👍🏼

> > Each [community developed template](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate) is dependent on a certain version of the generator for it to work correctly. So before you install the generator CLI, check the templates' `package.json` for the version of the Generator CLI your template is compatible with. To learn more about the generator version and how it correlates to the template you use check the [versioning docs](versioning.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Each [community developed template](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate) is dependent on a certain version of the generator for it to work correctly. Before you install the generator CLI, check the templates' `package.json` for the version of the Generator CLI your template is compatible with. To learn more about the generator version and how it correlates to the template you use check the [versioning docs](versioning.md).
```

### Updating the AsyncAPI Generator CLI
There are several reasons why you might want to update your generator version:

> 1. You have the generator tool installed but you want to use the latest released features. To upgrade to the latest version, use the command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You have the generator tool installed but want to use the latest released features. To upgrade to the latest version, use the command below:
```

```
npm install -g @asyncapi/generator
```

> 2. Your template might not be compatible with the latest generator version so you update to a specific version of the generator. Check the [version you need](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/releases) and specify the version you want to use using the **@** symbol as shown in the command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If your template isn't compatible with the latest generator version, you can update it to a specific version of the generator. Check the [version you need](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/releases) and specify the version you want by using the **@** symbol as shown in the command below:
```

```
npm install -g @asyncapi/generator@{version}
```
> Sometimes you have to force additional npm installation like this: `npm install -g --force @asyncapi/generator`

> ### Uninstall the AsyncAPI Generator CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Uninstall
```

To uninstall the generator, use the following command:
```
npm uninstall @asyncapi/generator -gnpm uninstall @asyncapi/generator -g
``` 

> > :memo: **Note:**  If you want to use the Generator CLI in your CI/CD pipeline to automate whatever you want generated for your event driven architecture apps, install the AsyncAPI Generator CLI in your pipeline. Incase you are using Github Actions, use [Github Actions for Generator](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/generator-for-asyncapi-documents).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> :memo: **Note:**  If you want to use the Generator CLI in your CI/CD pipeline to automate whatever you generate for your event-driven architecture apps, install the AsyncAPI Generator CLI in your pipeline. If you are using GitHub Actions, use [Github Actions for Generator](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/generator-for-asyncapi-documents).
```

> ## Use the Generator Library In Your Node.js Apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generator Library in Node.js Apps
```

This is about how the URL and your page outline make sense and seem cleaner this way:
`asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator#generator-library-in-nodejs-apps`

> To use the generator library in your Node.js projects by installing it using the `npm install @asyncapi/generator` command withing your Node.js project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the generator library in your Node.js projects by installing it via the following command: `npm install @asyncapi/generator`.
```

### Installation

#### Install AsyncAPI CLI using NPM

The AsyncAPI CLI is a NodeJS project, so the easiest way to install it is by using the following `npm` command:
```
npm install -g @asyncapi/cli
```

To install a specific version of the generator tool, pass the version during installation:
```
npm install -g @asyncapi/cli@{version}
```
> :bulb: **Remember:** 
> Each [community developed template](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate) is dependent on a certain version of the generator for it to work correctly. Before you install the generator CLI, check the template's `package.json` for the version of the Generator CLI your template is compatible with. Read the [versioning docs](versioning.md) to learn why it's important to use certain generator versions with your templates.

### Update AsyncAPI CLI
There are several reasons why you might want to update your generator version:
* You have the generator tool installed but want to use the latest released features. To upgrade to the latest version, use the command below:
```
npm install -g @asyncapi/cli
```

> * If your template isn't compatible with the latest generator version, you can update it to a specific version of the generator. Check the [version you need](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/releases) and specify the version you want by using the **@** symbol as shown in the command below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If your template isn't compatible with the latest generator version, you can update it to a specific version of the generator. Check the [version you need](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases) and specify the version you want by using the **@** symbol as shown in the command below:
```

---
title: "Installation Guide"
weight: 10
---

There are various ways you can use the Generator library to generate whaterver you want in your event driven architecture apps. Find your prefered method below:
- [1. Using the AsyncAPI Generator CLI](#1-using-the-asyncapi-generator-cli)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Updating the AsyncAPI Generator CLI](#updating-the-asyncapi-generator-cli)
  - [Uninstall the AsyncAPI Generator CLI](#uninstall-the-asyncapi-generator-cli)
- [2. Use the Generator Library In Your Node.js Apps](#2-use-the-generator-library-in-your-nodejs-apps)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites-1)

>  

Author: @derberg I wanted to link the 2 ways to install the Generator here but VS code kept auto-generating the table of contents instead. I just wanted it to be:

1.  [Using the AsyncAPI Generator CLI](#1-using-the-asyncapi-generator-cli) and 
2.  [Use the Generator Library In Your Node.js Apps](#2-use-the-generator-library-in-your-nodejs-apps)
Not sure how to achieve this.

```
npm install -g @asyncapi/generator@{version}
```
> Sometimes you have to force additional npm installation like this: `npm install -g --force @asyncapi/generator`

### Uninstall the AsyncAPI Generator CLI
To uninstall the generator, use the following command:
```
npm uninstall @asyncapi/generator -gnpm uninstall @asyncapi/generator -g
```

> **Note:** If you want to use the Generator CLI in your CI/CD pipeline to automate whatever you want generated for your event driven architecture apps, install the AsyncAPI Generator CLI in your pipeline. Incase you are using Github Actions, you can use [Github Actions for Generator](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/generator-for-asyncapi-documents)

## 2. Use the Generator Library In Your Node.js Apps
You can use the generator library in your Nodejs projects by installing it using the `npm install @asyncapi/generator` command withing your nodejs project.

### Prerequisites

> Check the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) above before you install the Generator CLI in your project.

Author: I have some doubts about how I mention the prerequisites here. I'm not sure if it should be above the small sentence I have or below.

## AsyncAPI CLI
The AsyncAPI CLI tool allows you to do many different things with the [AsyncAPI document](asyncapi-document.md). You can generate message-based API boilerplate code, documentation, or anything else you need as long as you specify it in your [template](template.md) or the existing template already supports it. To use the generator via the AsyncAPI CLI, you need to install the AsyncAPI CLI tool.

### Installation

#### Install AsyncAPI CLI using NPM

The AsyncAPI CLI is a NodeJS project, so the easiest way to install it is by using the following `npm` command:
```
npm install -g @asyncapi/cli
```

To install a specific version of the generator tool, pass the version during installation:
```
npm install -g @asyncapi/cli@{version}
```

#### MacOS 
You can install in MacOS by using brew: `brew install asyncapi`. 

#### Linux 
You can install in Linux by using `dpkg`, a package manager for debian:
1. 'curl -OL https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases/latest/download/asyncapi.deb`
2. `sudo dpkg -i asyncapi.deb`

#### Other Operating Systems

> For further installation instructions for different operating systems, read the [`AsyncAPI CLI` readME file](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For further installation instructions for different operating systems, read the [AsyncAPI CLI documentation](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation).
```

---
title: "Installation Guide"
weight: 10
---

## AsyncAPI CLI Installation
To use the AsyncAPI generator, you will need to install the AsyncApi generator CLI tool. The CLI tool allows you to generate message-based API boilerplate code or documentation. This guide will show you how to set up your local development environment to start using the generator library.

### Pre-installation
Before you install and use the AsyncAPI CLI, you'll need to have installed:
1. Node.js v12.16 and higher
2. Npm v6.13.7 and higher
   
To verify the versions of node and npm you have, run the following command on your terminal:
```
npm -v
```
```
node -v
```

If you don't have either Node or Npm installed, do so using the [official node.js installer](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

If you have the right versions installed, you can proceed to the CLI installation guide below else, kindly upgrade the versions of your npm or node if lower than the versions specified above.

> > The generator library is tested at the moment against Node 14 and NPM 6. Using newer versions is enabled but we do not guarantee they work well. Please provide feedback on the issues.

Reviewer 2: ups, we did not update readme, we actually also test on node 16 and newer npm, so we are sure that newer version work like a charm, we can remove this note
